welcome to guyani web browser's
bi-weekly call for the 22nd
of september 2020
uh we finally released
ipfs web ui so this uh
this will be a quick show and tell of
what's new
in the new releases uh we had to release
this one was like the
domain with features and then was a
quick
bug fix release that's followed
shortly after that uh this web ui will
land in before we go to the show and
tell
this web ui will land in go ipfs 0.7 and
the next version of iphone's desktop
we we got ipfs desktop and ipvs
companion releases scheduled to release
soon so probably
uh the next time on this call we'll uh
discuss those
uh jessica do you want to like make a
quick chantel of
uh the ui changes i can put a later uh
demo the
remote api uh because i gotta call setup
june have a web ui up at the moment but
if you give me a
minute at this point i don't even
remember what was
what's in great that you asked
hi here's what we made earlier yeah
so um like the change list is
pretty massive the thing that we
i think we would like to highlight is
cli tutor mode and
probably the changes around uh super
brand crams
breadcrumbs um the welcome page
the continuity and i can demo the remote
api with
basic auth because i got because you
have one handy all right
may i share my screen yep all righty
all right so here we have ourselves a
beautiful web ui
with its streamlined sidebar menu there
um including this guy here so uh we were
realizing that we had
um thanks to a contributor to
andrew's contributor who said the
welcome messaging is kind of hidden
because we weren't really
showing that any time other than if you
had a blank file screen you didn't have
any files yet
um so we have ourselves a nice little
status menu the nice thing is
if you drop um drop your connection it
will also reflect that right there in
that
status screen and give you some things
that you can do right away
because you probably don't have cores
figured out or
your api is on the wrong port or
something like that or you just did like
me and you've stopped your
daemon for a second but so then you
successfully reconnect and you get that
which is
wonderful um settings this is
super cool this came from oh and also we
rearranged things a little bit more here
so that
api address is easier to change should
you wish to
reconfigure your api address there but
this is the really cool part cli tutor
mode
oink you turn that on you notice
underneath the ips config fps config you
get this little icon
that little icon appears all over the
place so
like say here right
they're all over here so you could pin
delete whatever whatever whatever
or you could invoke this cli tutor mode
and here it says paste this into your
terminal to do this thing
in the command line so if you have just
downloaded
desktop or you're just using web ui
because it's easier
it's a good way to get started in the
terminal commands
we also have new and exciting and shiny
super breadcrumbs
so oh good i do have things making some
nested files to demo
all right to say we've got like all of
these like cats more cats
even more cats i could take like this
guy here who's sitting in three
directors deep even more cats and i can
do
that and now it's gone
but cubecat's in here now super shiny
lots of other small improvements but
those are the major ones i would you
like
lytle to demo the remote
api authy stuff yeah
let me quickly share my screen
uh yeah so this is like the default view
when you are connected to ipfs nodes
and you can click on advanced to see uh
like more details uh the api here has
this edit button
and when you click on it you got moved
to this screen which is casual
before uh what's interesting here is
that we
in this input field you can like of
course enter multi-others
you can let me quickly
copy
you can enter it as regular url
as well and when you
check it will use url which you've
passed
but what's uh probably them even more
useful
is that now if you
have a remote api which is guarded by
basic auf
or some custom tokens or any other
http based
authorization mechanism we
made it possible for people to
specify custom headers and just connect
to it
uh the easiest way is of course using
basic auf and in basic alph is
pretty easy because you can like inline
user and password
as a part of url and if you connect to
that
i got a proxy which is adding a basic
alph but it's effectively connected to
the same node
you can see there's a different port so
if i connect it to that now i no longer
see the address here because the address
itself
includes sensitive credentials and we
don't want to link them
uh with like status screenshots uh that
people may use for
debugging so uh you have this
message that it's a custom json
configuration and why does it say it's
custom json configuration so
when you go to uh settings page you can
see that that
inline um uh basic of cred
those inline basic out credentials got
converted into a json uh
that's accepted by hdb client
and it's pretty handy because
it not only supports basic health so
basic off part is this
here you can see that every request made
by web ui will have this additional
authorization
header which is uh just a user and
password
uh hashed uh encode that is based
not hashed however you could have
some like error tokens or api token
or any type of custom header
that your api is guarded by and you can
specify that here
api path uh can also be customized
so this is a json with acp client
configuration and
we don't announce it but it's uh if you
if someone needs it
it's supported uh out of the box um
and of course you can like revert back
uh to
just a multi-other at any point um i've
we had like a multiple requests for
various use cases
and i believe now anyone can just
implement
whatever they use without uh
implementing that in
web ui itself all parameters
supported by http client are supported
so
if anything is missing we'll just add it
there
and that's it um yep
do we have anything else i believe we we
had the missing translations in the
web ui as well we fixed that so in case
uh someone was curious why translations
are missing
they were missing yeah um and there's a
little bit of a background to that
um we did add some extra translation
burden with this release
um i went through we had a lot of
duplicate internationalization strings
um
and really things that were appearing in
multiple files that were very very very
similar so
um i did go through and clean all of
those up we do have a
standard app.json that's now got sort of
like the master strings that appear in
multiple places
so that should help a lot with
consistency it'll also help us with
writing more consistently as we add
features going forward making sure that
um
that they appear in the same voice and
the same
methodology same sort of overall mental
models we've got but what that does mean
is that um we did move a lot of
internationalization strings around in
ways that
um you know transfex does do some of
this in like
automatic mode but not everything so um
apologies if you are
tuned in on this call and are one of our
active translators and you're like wait
i already did that so we sincerely
apologize
this is a this is a bit of a tech debt
sort of move and things in advance
um something that may like is the pain
is that on transfex we got a feature
enabled
called uh translation memory uh
which is uh kind of like a safety net in
case we messed something up
uh no translation is ever missed or like
ever forgotten or it does even if it
like disappears because we messed up
keys and your translation disappeared
it's still
in the like shared memory between
projects so if the same source string
appears
under different key it should be picked
up automatically or at least you should
be
you you should see it on the right side
as a like close to 100 percent much
i think a lot of that i think i think
that should
um that robot should take care of
most of it but there are going to be a
few things that are going to need to be
retranslated by hand yeah
uh just uh just to close like the show
and tell the section maybe i'll
quickly give a sneak peek of a
new release of desktop we will be
shipping go ipfs 0.7 uh
may probably this week maybe next week
and it will include this new web ui as
well
so stay tuned uh companion
we may decrease the scope we'll see how
this oh come on
that's my fault i'm like maybe i'll put
this in the milestone
it's fine it'll be easy yeah it jokes
aside
uh i've successfully made embedded js
ipfs
run in brave after uh this assing
iterables refactor so uh that was like a
huge time sync but now it should
go much more smoother um yeah so also
like
expect release this or next week and
yep i think that's it um the next
section
is just a quick psa about pinning
services
because why not it would not be a week
without pinning services with shipped
0.1 this is a
hopefully in the last release uh ideally
we would just tag
1.0 uh
from the same revision without any
changes uh the plan is to tag
1.0 when go ipfs 0.8
ships with a built-in client for this
api
so um it will be the idea is that
go ipfs itself will give an opt-in
capability for people to add a remote
service
and have a ability to pin
specific cids with additional name and
to to that remote service and
when go up so 0.8 ships we'll
freeze the spec so to speak in this
release we got
two braking changes because we renamed
fields
or we introduced more strict uh
structures for error responses but apart
from
but apart from that there were no uh
revolutionary changes just slow
uh stabilization and clarification
we will be refactoring
the epic for pinning services branch in
the following weeks
and switching to the new js http client
that uses those new p remote commands
so uh expect interesting
updates in the next time we are on this
call
i think that's it for for now on my ends
um directly do you
want to mention the big refactor that
landed in webui
uh yeah it landed yesterday
there were a lot of changes in terms of
how we use
react uh sorry redux bundler
it basically cleared some logic and
streamlight a little bit so it's easier
to follow
so hopefully it would enable us to make
changes faster and more reliable
and add some little bit of type script
into it too
so we can catch changes uh sorry catch
error sooner
um yeah yeah cool i believe like rafael
was waiting for that without with
uh uh before he started uh
final appealing services integration
work on the
file screen i believe yes yeah that
would be super useful
that we now have it landed and we work
on top of it
uh yeah
oh also uh we
will have a progress reporting i did not
mention that before because it was not
not on the uh not in realist notes but
right now uh what's not
like visual but the one of main
improvements in this new web ui
that will ship to everywhere soon is
that you can
just import very big files like
two gigabytes five four gigabytes it
will take a moment
but they will import and will not kill
your browser which is very good
uh the problem is like for now it
just takes a few seconds and nothing
happens
and we want to add the progress
reporting so i think that will also be
uh landing soon
i'm working on that piece and it was
also kind of waiting on the
big reflector to blend first yeah yeah
so that's uh
really cool news that it landed and we
can move forward with that
all right folks uh any topics you want
to
ah that hog andrew how do you feel about
your pinning services i promise to not
release new
spec anytime soon god it
seems fine on my end uh there's
definitely some optimization for that i
can imagine clients wanting
but from from a base level it's
it's good enough to get you there the
thing i jump to straight away is i want
like the web ring of pinning services so
that you can as a client
just bounce and be like i'll just send
out to a number of pinning services
that all offer free things so that i get
a nice distribution around the internet
but obviously that stuff doesn't come
for free forever
and people will take advantage of it so
it's it's not perfect someone will write
a proxy which
just like picks a random
robin through every different free
pinning service yeah
or you could make many different
if you've got um a open source
server implementation like i have you
can just spin it up on every free
hosting service you can find or maybe
inside of ci
you can just keep many ci builds going
for 24 hours
and you're constantly pinning things
as long as there's always one service we
should not endorse
that sort of thing
can a pinning server also be a pinning
client that pins onto the next one
and then repeatedly every time that it
pins something it just goes and pins it
in the next one
but i appreciate how it will make people
excited about the spec
i think it's good it'd be good to have a
uh
um the js client as well
so that you can do that from the browser
um
and then the the next thing i guess that
people will reach
is the authorization kind of thing
and then they'll want some
standardization there
to be able to like get your access token
and i mean the access taken should can
be anything but they've got to be a
string right
and they can come from anywhere so you
might some might need an oauth dance and
others might be a username and password
thing to get back your token um totally
it's like an oppac script ring
mostly because we had like
pre-existing pinning services which
already have some conventions and then
we have like new folks
who will be implementing it that may
want to pick something else
something that's pretty cool is that
when like this api includes additional
metadata about
providers in request and response
however
when the client is implemented in go
ipfs
it will be kind of like hidden behind
the
curtain so when you like pin remotely
the go ipfs itself will ensure it
shares its multi-other
directly with pinning service and then
when pinning service responds with
multi-others of their own nodes
go ipfs which will ensure that local
node is connected to
a pinning service so that's all i
mentioned it because it's uh
important for desktop users who are
usually
behind nuts in networks that have
strange topology
and this additional metadata dance that
we do
with pinning service api ensures that
you don't need to
ask dht which may be slow or not all
and even if you get the address you may
not be able to connect to
to it and by ensuring that we both sides
try to
proactively connect to each other uh
that closes the gap with
strange network topologies another
opportunity for pinning services to kind
of
take off might be to get
not sure if it should be client or
server but integration
in textiles powergate as
that is looking like basically
lotus for foul coin is the least
user-friendly thing ever
and is highly recommended not to be the
like user interface for interacting with
file filecoin and powergate is like this
is much friendlier to use
so having powergate given that it is
there is ipfs inside it
eventually if you can just punch through
palgate
to talk to ipfs on 0.1
then you'll be able to use that but to
be able to say like
can i have a nice api that
pins to filecoin as um
and the powergate hot storage for
built into the command line for that
particular instance
would be great uh if you get like the
same kind of api
then you can use your whatever pinning
client you have to talk to a power gate
instance
and have all of that stuff happen
automatically rather than
having to configure it all yourself
which currently is
painful or using third-party service but
then you're like i have to upload all my
files over there and then they get sent
over there
and then they get put in ipfs and then
they go into file coin and then they go
into another file coin storage node over
there
and it's it's very very slow and painful
and i want to be able to not think about
it anymore
yeah it's still unclear if it will be a
part of powergate or maybe someone will
create a
kind of like a middleware that sits in
front of it
uh but definitely um
that's a that's not like on that
checklist i would like to
see personally also the the js client
is something we may uh we may want to
create just like we created the go
client for pinning services api uh and
you
namely use the js1 for quick
uh like regression test or compliance
tests
so you would have like a web web page
which is using this client you just
enter token
and end point to you press a button and
it
runs a set of compliance tests which
both
test the client and as well
the pinning service that you're running
it against
because i imagine some people may want
to
they may have own orchestration where
they have a cid
from they like produce cid
by other means and they just want to
execute this remote pinning service call
without maybe bundling entire js idfs or
something like that
so the js client may be useful to have
okey-dokey we've sprinted through agenda
highlights and async updates
do we have any urgent topics that we
want to share with community
or i can always end this call now
and then we will not share stuff with
community
all the exciting updates will not be
recorded
i have nothing more to add
so exciting updates after this recording
see you in two weeks